As an immortal new to the immortal reality of Nightmare, your are obligated
to read a certain set of documents before going on to coding.  On Nightmare,
immortality is not a reward for "winning the game" or being a great player.
Instead, it is an alternative to playing the game.  There is no point at
which a player wins on Nightmare, just like in life.  At a certain point,
however, (unlike life) a player is given the opportunity to become immortal.
And you have chosen that path.  That means that you no longer belong in the
realm of the mortal, and your participation in our reality has taken on a 
different character.

The first thing you should do is read all docs in /doc/LAW!!!!!!

You should next read the document /doc/build/approval.  This document
will explain to you everything that is expected of you on Nightmare as far
as coding is concerned.  You need to read this no matter what your coding
experience is on other muds.

If you know nothing about LPC, you should read the documents in /doc/lpc.
Granted they are weighty and hard to follow for someone with little 
programming experience, but you do not need to be able to understand it in
detail in order to code.  In order to be able to code, you simply need to
get the drift of those docs.

At that point you should read all of the other documents in the directories
of /doc/build.  These documents tell you the specifics of building rooms,
monsters, weapons, armour, and other items.  If the documents are good, then
you should now know enough to code a decent area.  But you first should
be aware of the laws which govern the balance and qc portions of approval.

You therefore need to read all docs in /doc/BALANCE and /doc/QC before you
begin actual coding.

The other documents in the /doc directory are supplementary docs and
You do not need to read them in order to function as an immortal in the
Nightmare reality.  But at some point you may indeed find them useful.

It is your responsibility to let a level 28+ know that you have completed
reading the docs required of you.  At that time, you will be given a directory
and promoted to level 21 immortal.  You MUST be in a domain to begin coding
your area.  Please look at the list of domains and choose.
