	Information about the Approval Process


	The approval process was designed to make sure that all areas
allowed into the mud are up to the quality and balance standards set
by the approval team. The approval team currently consists of Blodgett,
Darkstar, Murmur and myself ( Lassondra). So if anything is unclear to
you please mail us with questions. We want this process to be as
painless and effective as possible. So here are some of the things
that you should know before you enter the approval process. First
of all when your area is ready to be reviewed please mail approval
with the theme of your area, the approxomite number of rooms, and
the start room of your area. Once you have mailed us we will start to
review your area as soon as possible. Often there will be a line, as
areas seem to come in spurts, so don't get discouraged if your area
is not reviewed within the first two or three days after mailing us.
Please do not send us lots of mail asking how much longer, etc. If
a certain amount of time has passed, or you are feeling concerns,
then please mail us, but not for other reasons.
	There are several things that MUST be working properly
before your area will even be considered for opening. First of all,
all the exits must be working in your rooms. And make sure that
all the exits are correctly set to go to the proper rooms. We 
do not expect your area to be perfect. There will always be mistakes
that you and we miss. However, an area will not be opened until all
visible typos have been fixed. Thirdly, a requirement for areas is
describing all the nouns in your sentences. We do not expect you to
describe the adjectives in the nouns, such as wicker in the
description of a wicker chair, UNLESS the adjective is relevant
in some way to the room, such as search functions, or add_actions.
An area will be opened up, even if all of the noun descriptions
have not been added yet, but you will be expected to finish them
up withtin two weeks of the opening of your area. Failure to do
so will result in the closure of the area until fixed.
Lastly, the area must be approved by Balance before it will be opened.

Please feel free to mail us with any ideas or suggestions while
going through this process, or any other time for that matter.

Lass :)
