             Nightmare policy on code ownership

Part I: Acknowledgement of Agreement
This document serves as a binding contract between Nightmare LPMud (Nightmare),
which consists of all immortals with coding directories in /wizards, and the
individual immortal of Nightmare.

Any person who accepts an offer of immortality on Nightmare also accepts the
terms of this contract.  Immortality on Nightmare is accepted by the
individual once he/she has read this document and all other documents
required by the administrators of Nightmare (holders of the position head arch).
Immortality is granted to the individual by the administrators of Nightmare
once the individual has accepted the terms of this agreement and demonstrated
full knowledge of Nightmare laws and policies.  This granting of immortality
is exhibited through the promotion of the individual to the immortal
position of level 21 immortal and the creation of a home directory for
the individual, which will be called /wizards/(individual's name).

Part II: The Ownership of Code
All code created within or brought into the Nightmare LPMud environment
belongs to Nightmare LPMud.  Nightmare LPMud consists of all immortals
with home directories.  The administrators act on behalf of Nightmare
with regards to implementation of Nightmare policy and this agreement.
This does not imply a democratic forum or any say necessarily on behalf
of individuals who are not members of the administration.  The point is
simply that the code does not in fact belong to the administration any
more than any one else.  It is just that, being that the code belongs
to Nightmare, the administrators are empowered with the ability in their
capacity as administrators to make decisions about what may be done with the
code on behalf of Nightmare.  Once an administrator leaves his/her position
as administrator, that person loses all right to act on behalf of Nightmare
with repect to code ownership or any other aspect of Nightmare policy.

Once an immortal leaves Nightmare, ownership to the physical code contained
in the individual's home directory reverts back to the individual.  Any
code physically outside of the home directory, whether created in whole or
in part by that immortal, remains fully that of Nightmare.  Any code which
is both inside the individual's home directory and outside the individual's
home directory belongs to Nightmare.  The exception to this are backup
copies of the immortal's home directory.

Part III: The right of copying of Nightmare owned code
All code created within or brought into the Nightmare LPMud environment is
freely copyable by any other member of Nightmare.  Such code may be used
in any way the members of Nightmare deem appropriate, with the administrators
of Nightmare working to maintain uniqueness within the Nightmare environment.
This means that although the code ownership agreement states that an
individual may copy and legally reuse verbatim code created by another
individual, the administrators of Nightmare do not wish such things to happen.
In pursuit of that goal, mud policy will reflect that no code should be
copied verbatim (with or without original creator's permission), and that
any code copied substantially from another member of Nightmare should
retain header comments crediting the original creator.

Part IV: The right to create, modify, or destroy code
Individual immortals retain the right to deal with code inside their home
directories as they see fit.  This means an individual may create, modify,
or delete any code that conforms to the laws and policies of Nightmare
within his/her individual directory.  No other individual acting as an
individual may create, modify, or delete such code. Only administrators and
those holding the position of arch may take such action when that action
is deemed in the best interests of Nightmare.  The administrators and arches
also are responsible for the creation, modification, and deletion of
communal files (those belonging to Nightmare, but not within the home
directory of an individual) as they deem in the best interest of Nightmare
in accordance with the policies and laws of Nightmare.

Part V: Practical application:
What does all of this mean?
It means that when you leave Nightmare, you may take a copy of the code in
your home directory and/or request that that home directory be deleted
and not used by Nightmare.  If, however, there exists code which you created
whole or in part outside of your home directory, then you have no rights to
it except that the code shall retain your name in header comments for credit.
For elders, this means we may still keep your domains in the game, although
we cannot keep your areas in the game.  For administrators, this means that
you may not take any code you created for the mud away from Nightmare, and
you may only take copies of it if Nightmare policy allows copies of
code belonging to Nightmare outside of Nightmare (at this time, this is not
a problem, since the Nightmare mudlib is available in open distribution).

It also means that immortal X can copy immortal Y's code with or without
immortal X's permission.  However, Nightmare policy is such that immortal Y
cannot use that code without substantial change.  Although copying nifty
things from other immortals is not illegal here (this is in order to deflate
egos and encourage learning), it is not in the mud's best interest to
proliferate new code everywhere.  So use of such code in the game (which is
decided at approval time) generally will not be allowed by Nightmare policy.
The point is that this agreement technically allows it.
