		     High Mortal Estate Building
		 created by Descartes of Borg 940702
			last modified: 940702

Nightmare supports the ability of high mortals to create homes called
estates.  Certain areas on the LPMud are zoned for residential use up
to a certain density.  As a high mortal, you may go to any realty shop
and purchase an estate deed.  This deed essentially gives you the
right to build an estate on any property zoned for residential use
which has not reached its zoned density.  There is no way for you to
know which areas are buildable without issuing the "build" command.

Once you have purchased a deed, you then take it to the area where you
would like to make your home.  You then issue the command "build
estate".  You will then be prompted for the following buts of
information:
1) a one to two line description of your estate
    People, when they are in the area where your estate is being
    built, will see your estate there.  If they want to look at it,
    what they see is what you enter here.  For example:
      "Descartes's estate is an overwhelming and sinister looking cube."
    Of course, you leave out the "".

Then for info about the first room which people enter when they enter
your estate...
2) A short description
    This is the text people see when they are in the room and in brief
    mode.  You should not capitalize any of these words unless proper
    English demands it.  Examples are: "the study", 
    "the entry hall of Descartes' cube", "a small path to the cabin".
3) is it indoors or outdoors
    If your first room is indoors, enter 1.  If it is outdoors,
    enter 0.
4) lighting
    Enter 0 for very dark areas, 3 for very well lit ones
5) a long description for the room
    This is part of what people see when they enter a room in verbose
    mode.  You will enter the editor in order to enter this information.
    The editor is just the same as with posting to boards and sending
    mail.  Keep in mind, however, that line breaks are irrelevant.
    Any <return>'s will be turned into spaces, and the text will be
    formatted to fit each player's screen.  Make these as descriptive
    as possible, with correct spelling and grammar.

You are, at that point, done.  Here is an example of what each does:

short description: "the study"

When you enter the room in brief mode, you see:

the study
[1: exit]

long description for the room:
"Descartes' study is a huge cube with Borg monitors placed everywhere."
"In the corner of the cube is a little interface module that is "
"otherwise meaningless to you.  No furnishings beautify this otherwise"
"very Borgish cube."

When you enter the room in verbose mode, you would see:

Descartes's study is a huge cube with Borg monitors placed everywhere.
In the corner of the cube is a little interface module that is
otherwise meaningless to you.  No furnishings beautify this otherwise
very Borgish cube.

The only obvious exit is exit.

NOTES:
Everything you do is subject to being wiped out by the Nightmare
approval staff.  Estates must fit the Nightmare theme, have proper
grammar and spelling, and must not violate any other Nightmare rules.
Approval always has the final say about any estate.

Room additions to estates are much the same as creating your first
room.  With room additions, however, you enter the short description
for the new room on the command line.

Items may be "added" to any room for a cost.  Every room should have a
sufficient number of items before a new room is added.  Approval at
any point may halt the building onto any estate to prevent dullness
from setting in.  An item is simply something which a player can look
at with the look command.  In general, if your long description
references some noun, you should have an item for it.  For example, if
the sentence:

"A bookshelf lines the western wall."

is in your long description, you should have items to describe
"bookshelf", "shelf", "wall", and "western wall".  Fortunately, this
can be done simply with purchasing two items, since "western wall" is
simply an alias for "wall".

When adding items, you give the item name on the command line, and
then you are asked for the following information:
1) a list of aliases, or items which have the exact same description
2) the description of the item.

Coming soon:
adding real object such as monsters and weapons and armour and such
the creation of communes... estates belonging more than one person
