			 The Nightmare Mudlib
			     version 3.3
			   for MudOS v20.23

The Nightmare mudlib is the result of great collaboration originating way
back to the original LPMud mudlibs.  The creators of the Nightmare mudlib
used the TMI mudlib 0.8.11 as their basic coding environment while creating
the mudlib, and thus some code from that mudlib is still quite present in
the Nightmare Mudlib.

This document serves as the liscensing agreement between those credited
in the credits document and any user of the Nightmare Mudlib 3.3, in
whole or in part.  Use of the Nightmare Mudlib 3.3 is considered consent to
the terms contained in this document.  There are 2 terms:
  1) The Nightmare mudlib 3.3, neither in whole nor in part, may ever be
     used for profit.  Access to any mud making use of the Nightmare mudlib
     may only be restricted based on security reasons or reasons of network
     limitations. Specifically, access may not be restricted in order to
     charge access tolls.
  2) This document must be retained with any copy of Nightmare mudlib 3.3
     in the /doc/mudlib directory with the mudlib credits.


A note about the above:
  This does not mean you can't banish people from your mud!  It just
  means you cannot go restricting access in such a way that requires people
  to do things like pay!

A note about local modifications:
    Use your own best judgment of what is fair with respect to
    modifying the MUDLIB NAME.  Changing the base world is not changing
    the mudlib.  At the same rate, we do not expect people who take a few
    files to incorporate into their mudlib to retain the mudlib name (although
    headers should remain).  In between probably should mention something
    like "Nightmare 3.3 version <insert name>" if it is more Nightmare than
    local, or "<insert name> Mudlib based on Nightmare 3.3" otherwise.  But
    we are not anal about this, we just request you be fair.

    Examples:
    straight mudlib: display as "Nightmare Mudlib 3.3"
    straight mudlib with a different town: display as "Nightmare Mudlib 3.3"
    minor mudlib changes: "Nightmare Mudlib 3.3 version Foomud 1.0"
    heavily changed mudlib: "Foomud 1.0-Nightmare 3.3 Mudlib"
    fundamentally changed mudlib: "Foomud Mudlib 1.0, based on Nightmare
        Mudlib 3.3"
    you just borrowed a few files: "Foomud Mudlib 1.0"

  Descartes of Borg      13 December 1994             borg@imaginary.com
